---
layout: post
title: "Faculty & What It Means"
description: "A brief history of Faculty and how it came to be."
tags: [personal]
author: "Christian Solorzano, Principal"
image: "thumbnails/article-faculty.jpg"
---


<h2> How It Started </h2>
The idea of Faculty started in 2015, under the guidance of one of my mentors at DePaul University, here in Chicago. The idea was to create a design publication. The design publication would seek to interview creatives in and around the Chicagoland area, that I felt were pushing boundaries and carried a good message. At the time, there really wasn't any design publication in Chicago that championed creativity. Much of the design conversation existed through public forums such as organizations like STA and AIGA.

  The idea that I proposed to my college professor was to create a quarterly publication called Faculty. Around this time, I was swimming in inspiration with Andy Warhol's The Factory and felt nostalgia looking through its photographs and work that it produced. What I appreciated most was Warhol's ability to capture and transform the ordinary into something extraordinary. Although, at the time, the idea of creating something physical like The Factory was something not even in my peripheries, I knew I wanted to at minimum make an attempt to create a self-initiated design community.

  At one point, Faculty was a online publication that published interviews with designers and essays on design and criticism. I would visit student gallery shows and I would contact students whose work I found inspiring. This lasted roughly two years before I took the website down. I wanted to do something <em>bigger</em> but I did not know what.

  It's taken years to get Faculty to where it is today. Through studying Buddhism, philosophy, ecology, poetry, and film, I finally feel confident to bring this vision to make Faculty a design practice into fruition.




  <h2> What Faculty Is Today </h2>
Today, Faculty is a design practice that engages in conversations with organizations and communities. Even when not engaged in <em>client work</em>, Faculty is engaged in research and relationships across disciplines and industries.


  <h2> Why The Name Faculty? </h2>
  <h4> Definitions </h4>
  * an inherent mental or physical power.
  * a group of university departments concerned with a major division of knowledge.

  In today's society of consumption, our faculties are often not included in daily discourse. Distraction threatens our abilities thrive so Faculty's focus is to encourage our faculties to manifest through the arts. Faculty understands the power of collective community and the importance of diversity of thought, which is why we emphasize Faculty, as a division of knowledge that mindfully approaches problems through the a speculative lens of design that considers different outcomes and prioritizes the well-being of society, community, and people.

  <h2> Our Causes</h2>
Our belief is that design <em>should always</em> make an effort to make a positive impact. Faculty investigates current issues and bears witness to the problems that plague our world. Faculty hopes to engage with organizations and collaborate on solutions that will make an impact and a difference.
  <h4> What keeps us up at night</h4>
  * Injustice
  * Mental health
  * Poverty
  * Homelessness
  * Inequality
  * Climate Change
  * The environment
  * Animal rights
  * Wellness


  <h2> The Future</h2>
I'm excited about the future and I'm ready to make a difference.









